Luv Kush is a follow-up series of Ramayan and is based on the Uttara Kanda, which is the last chapter of Ramayana. It depicts the lives of Luv and Kush, the twin sons of Rama and Sita.

After Ram's coronation, he gets to know about Sita's pregnancy and the citizens of Ayodhya gossiping her character as she was forced to Live in Lanka. He trusts his wife and decides to leave that matter but Sita gets to know about this and tells Ram to abandon her is his duty as a king and she decides to leave to the forests. His brother Lakshman protests this but in vain and leaves her in the forest where she meets Rishi Valmiki who was composing Ramayana, the life incident of Rama. Rishi Valmiki accepts her as his daughter. She is provided shelter in his ashram. On the other hand, Ram is missing Sita and King Janaka (Sita's father) visits him and he gets to know that Sita's mother Sunayana has fallen ill after getting the news of her daughter's abandonment. Ram visits Mithila and apologize to her.

After coming back to Ayodhya, many sages complain about the tyrant King of Madhupur, Lavanasur and Ram sends his brother Shatrughna to kill him. On his way to Madhupur, he meets Sage Valmiki in ashram where Sita was living under incognito. He unknowingly performs the naming ceremony of his nephews Luv and Kush. He succeeded in slaying Lavanasur and is crowned as King of Madhupur.

As the years pass by, Luv and Kush are trained under Rishi Valmiki and are taught Ramayan by them. Kush always had a question in mind about why Ram abandoned Sita, not knowing that Sita is none other than his own mother as they knew her by the name Vandevi. 12 years later, Ram conducts an Ashvamedh Yagna and the horse is stopped by them as they wanted to know the answer to their questions. They fight with Lakshman, Bharat and Shatrughan and finally are about to fight with their father when Valmiki interrupts and ends the fight. In the evening they visit Sita and tells them about the days incident and Sita tells them that Ram is their father. They travel to Ayodhya singing the verses of Ramayan and make the citizens realise their mistake of doubting Devi Sita. Rama is eager to listen to the epic Ramayana. He invites Luv and Kush to his palace and listens to them along with his family and other courtiers. It is when he realises that both of them are his sons whereas citizens of Ayodhya still asks to prove Sita's character. Sita is called and Ram asks her to give the proof. Sita decides to give the last proof and calls her birth mother Bhumi Devi (Earth Goddess) and went away with her saying that this place is not safe for women and they are not respected here; leaving Luv and Kush with their father.

Years later, Lord Rama crowns his sons and nephews in different parts of Kosala and takes Jal Samadhi along with his brothers.